            Easy way to remember
            
Encapsulation	            Abstraction
Hides data	                Hides implementation
Protects variables          Simplifies usage
Uses private variables	    Uses abstract classes/interfaces


File Handling is simply Python talking to a file on your Computer. 
Python can 
1 : Read from it 
2: Write to it 
3: Add more data in to it 
4: Delete or update data (Later)

There are four modes to open a file 
"r" Read a file 
"w" Write a file 
"a" apeend on file 
"x" create a new file 


A Pointer is a marker that keeps track of specific location or position. 

with open in file handling has a special meaning i.e whether the program gets creashe and close
program even with file.close() is not in snippet but still python managed to close file by the use 
of this with open method. 

The file should have to closed . is it bad ???
yes, As an open file is a resource . 
just like a database connection , a network connection, a camera, a microphone . 
when you are finish using it, release it . 
otherewise, you can waste system resources or even prevent other program from using the file. 


Before writting code remember four thing always . 
1 : Does algorithm make sense 
2: Is the responsibility in the correct class 
3: Does my code follow pep8
4: Can i reuse this later. 

whenever you finish writting a feature like savebook do three things before showing result . 
1 : Explain the algorithm 
2: Expalin why you design in that way. 
3: Then show the code. 

The process that should follow from  every project now on 
1: Understand the problem (Ask your self what i am trying to build)
2: Write the algorithm (No code just plain english)
3: Decide responsibilities. 
4: Write the code (As after all these steps the code become easier)
5: Test it (Not happy path but also try to fail the code)
6: Refactor ()


Parsing basically is breaking down the raw text in to usable piece of data . 


Who is responsible for converting a line from the file into a Book object?"

The best answer would be:
"load_books_from_file() is responsible for the conversion.
It uses split() to separate the values and then calls the Book constructor to create the object."

Logging have five levels you would use 
1: Debuge
2: info
3: Warning 
4: Error 
5: Critical 


Here's a rule I personally use

When choosing a log level, I ask:

Did everything work normally?
✅ INFO

Did something unexpected happen, but the program handled it?
⚠️ WARNING

Did an operation actually fail because of an error?
❌ ERROR

Can the application no longer continue?
🚨 CRITICAL



Here's a mental shortcut
I use this all the time.

DEBUG
"What is my code doing?"

INFO
"Everything worked."

WARNING
"Something unexpected happened, but it's okay."

ERROR
"One operation failed."

CRITICAL
"The application cannot continue."


Logging is the practice of recording events, message and data during a program execution. it's like
keeping a diary of what your program does ,when it does and any problems it encounters. 

A common principal is :
Log meaningful events, not every line of code. 

Threshold rule in logging always remember : 
            "The configured logging level is the minimum severity that will be displayed."

Analogy is a comparison between two different things that are highlights their similarities,especially
in terms of structure, function, or relationships.

import os 
without os , python knows about 
variable, loop, classes and function. 

with os, python can communicate with your computer. 
where i am , what files in this folder, create a folder, rename this file, delet this file 


os functionsp  purpose

os.getcwd()	Get current working directory

os.listdir()	Return all files and folders

os.mkdir()	Create a directory

os.path.exists()	Check if a file or folder exists

os.path.isfile()	Check if it's a file

os.path.isdir()	Check if it's a directory

os.rename()	Rename a file or folder

os.remove()	Delete a file


Before Python 3.4, developers mainly used the os module.

Example:

import os

print(os.path.exists("data.txt"))

It works, but as programs grow larger, os.path.join(), string concatenation,
and path separators (/ and \) can become cumbersome.

Python introduced pathlib to make working with paths:

More readable
More object-oriented
Easier to understand
Cross-platform (Windows, Linux, macOS)

Nowadays, for most new Python code, pathlib is the preferred approach.

Rule to remember always 
when using relative path ,ask your self 
"where my python script running from ? "
start writing the path from there, not from the project root by habit. 


Apple command line tools is a package provided by Apple that contains the essential tools 
needed for software developoment on macOS.

 A virtual environment provides an isolated Python environment for each project.
 This prevents dependency conflicts because each project can have its own package versions 
 without affecting other projects or the global Python installation.

 rm -rf .venv deleting the virtual environment if needed. 
 source .venv/bin/activate to activate the virtual environment to the python work. 

 git diff app.py shows what changes we have made. 
 pip install -r requirements.txt to install the required packages for the project. 

 python3 -m venv .venv to create virtual environment. 

 To Work with project 
 1. Clone repository
        ↓
2. Enter project directory
        ↓
3. Create virtual environment
        ↓
4. Activate virtual environment
        ↓
5. Install requirements

git clone <repository-url>

cd project-name

python3 -m venv .venv

source .venv/bin/activate

pip install -r requirements.txt

git rm -r --cached .venv when .venv/ is already tracked. 

for installing the package of python use activate it first and then 
python -m pip install package name 

Direct vs Tranistitive dependency simply understand this line ,

Direct = my code needs it.

Transitive = something my code needs requires it.

why do need logging if we alrady have print ,becuase print is mainly for some thing to print on console .
console is basically direct conversation with computer using text . 
Logging is for recording what is happening inside the application in a strucutured controlled way. 
imaging your application runnign on server . somethign goes wrong at 2AM. 
with print you may have little control over there .

cat app.log will print the content inside log file . 

for a snimple project or learning logging.info("Application Started") is ok that will print 
info root : Application Started


A logger is the object that creates and send log message from your python program.

Logging tells us what happend, a logger identifies the resource that reported it .

logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)
Now imagine a bigger project

Suppose you have:  Project/app.y datbase.py student.py 

logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

logger.error("Database connection failed")
Then the log can identify that the message came from the database module:
ERROR - database - Database connection failed

And student.py might produce:
WARNING - student - Student already exists

So your log becomes much more useful:
INFO    - app      - Application Started
ERROR   - database - Database connection failed
WARNING - student  - Student already exists

Now you can look at the log and immediately think:

"The database module is where the database-related error was logged."

That's the real advantage of named loggers.